# 10.1. Making a Hierarchical Package of Modules

Making a package structure is simple. Just organize your code as you wish on the filesystem and make sure that every directory defines an __init__.py file. For example:

```txt
graphics/
    __init__.py
primitive/
    __init__.py
    line.py
    fill.py
    text.py
formats/
    __init__.py
    png.py
    jpg.py
```

Once you have done this, you should be able to perform various import statements,
such as the following:

```python
import graphics.primitive.line
from graphics.primitive import line
import graphics.formats.jpg as jpg
```

Defining a hierarchy of modules is as easy as making a directory structure on the file‐
system. The purpose of the __init__.py files is to include optional initialization code
that runs as different levels of a package are encountered. For example, if you have the
statement import graphics, the file graphics/__init__.py will be imported and form
the contents of the graphics namespace. For an import such as import graphics.for
mats.jpg, the files graphics/__init__.py and graphics/formats/__init__.py will both be
imported prior to the final import of the graphics/formats/jpg.py file.
More often that not, it’s fine to just leave the __init__.py files empty. However, there are
certain situations where they might include code. For example, an __init__.py file can
be used to automatically load submodules like this:

```python
# graphics/formats/__init__.py
from . import jpg
from . import png
```

For such a file, a user merely has to use a single import graphics.formats instead of
a separate import for graphics.formats.jpg and graphics.formats.png.